#summary Disclaimer for this site and content.

= Disclaimer =

Note that this Wiki and Code Repository ("the Site", including this page and all other pages in the Wiki or content in the code repository or in any downloads) represents an ongoing efforts of the members of a flexible and dynamic set of programmers, both professional and amateur alike, and no guarantee is made for any of the information here contained. All information here is provided as is, with no warranty, express or implied. The text, figures, pictures, data, and designs included here may not have been tested to any U.S. or international standard, and use of any information provided on this site by an individual, company, group, organization, or any other entity ("entity") is at the sole discretion and risk of the entity that utilizes the information.

If you choose to utilize any of the Site's information, you do so entirely at your own risk. None of the authors, contributors, sponsors, administrators, or anyone else connected with the Site, in any way whatsoever, can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages. The Site is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or remove erroneous suggestions, they have no legal duty to do so, and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. No consequential damages can be sought against the Site, as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources. This information is being given to you gratuitously and thus there is no agreement or understanding between you and the Site regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the licenses the content is released under. 